Title: Retrieval- and Argumentation-Enhanced Multi-Agent LLMs for Judgmental Forecasting (Extended Version with Supplementary Material)
Authors: Deniz Gorur, Antonio Rago, Francesca Toni
Published: 2025-10-28
Source: https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.24303
ArXiv ID: 2510.24303

ifaamas \acmConference[AAMAS ’26]Proc. of the 25th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (AAMAS 2026)May 25 – 29, 2026 Paphos, CyprusC. Amato, L. Dennis, V. Mascardi, J. Thangarajah (eds.) \copyrightyear2026 \acmYear2026 \acmDOI \acmPrice \acmISBN \acmSubmissionID1456\affiliation\institutionImperial College London \countryUnited Kingdom\affiliation\institutionKing’s College London \countryUnited Kingdom\affiliation\institutionImperial College London \countryUnited Kingdom
Retrieval- and Argumentation-Enhanced Multi-Agent LLMs for Judgmental Forecasting
(Extended Version with Supplementary Material)
Abstract.
Judgmental forecasting is the task of making predictions about future events based on human judgment. This task can be seen as a form of claim verification, where the claim corresponds to a future event and the task is to assess the plausibility of that event. In this paper, we propose a novel multi-agent framework for claim verification, whereby different agents may disagree on claim veracity and bring specific evidence for and against the claims, represented as quantitative bipolar argumentation frameworks (QBAFs). We then instantiate the framework for supporting claim verification, with a variety of agents realised with Large Language Models (LLMs): (1) ArgLLM agents, an existing approach for claim verification that generates and evaluates QBAFs; (2) RbAM agents, whereby LLM-empowered Relation-based Argument Mining (RbAM) from external sources is used to generate QBAFs; (3) RAG-ArgLLM agents, extending ArgLLM agents with a form of Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) of arguments from external sources. Finally, we conduct experiments with two standard judgmental forecasting datasets, with instances of our framework with two or three agents, empowered by six different base LLMs. We observe that combining evidence from agents can improve forecasting accuracy, especially in the case of three agents, while providing an explainable combination of evidence for claim verification.
Key words and phrases:
Argumentation, LLMs, Judgmental Forecasting, RAG1. Introduction
Judgmental forecasting is the task of making predictions about future events by reasoning over incomplete, uncertain, and often conflicting information lawrence2006judgmental; zellner2021human based on the judgment of agents. This task can be seen as a form of claim verification, where a future outcome is seen as a claim and the task is to assess the plausibility of that outcome. The claim verification task involves determining whether a given claim is supported or refuted, often requiring the assessment of conflicting evidence. This evidence for verifying forecasting claims could be, for example, generated by LLMs Ge2025ResolvingEvidenceAutomatedFactChecking; Zheng2025Crave; Dmonte2024ClaimVerification or obtained from other repositories. However, despite LLMs’ remarkable capabilities across a range of tasks, they fall short here due to the fact that they may hallucinate or provide logically inconsistent outputs, and they cannot faithfully explain or allow for the contestation of their own outputs Freedman2025ArgLLMs. For example, claims about future events may require up to date knowledge that a single LLM lacks, due to its incomplete training data, leading to unreliable or conflicting predictions Yue2024RAGFactVerification. One approach, which aims at targeting this issue, uses Argumentative LLMs (ArgLLMs) Freedman2025ArgLLMs, which leverage techniques from computational argumentation (see AImagazine17; handbook for overviews) to generate Quantitative Bipolar Argumentation Frameworks (QBAFs) that provide structured debates on the claim to be verified. In doing so, ArgLLMs output a transparent decision for the claims along with supporting and attacking arguments acting as evidence. However, relying on a single ArgLLM is limiting, as its output is constrained by the knowledge and biases of its underlying LLM, potentially omitting crucial evidence.
To overcome the limitations of a single-agent approach, we propose a novel multi-agent framework for claim verification that combines argumentative reasoning generated as QBAFs from multiple, independent agents into a single, more robust QBAF. As illustrated in Figure 1, our Multi-Agent QBAF Combinator module aggregates the outputs from several agents by measuring the semantic similarity Chandrasekaran2021SemanticSimilarity between arguments, merging similar views to create a more robust framework. We chose QBAFs as they are core to ArgLLMs and have been deployed successfully in several applied settings, including judgmental forecasting irwin2022forecasting and decision-making Evripidou2014Quaestio; Aurisicchio2015Arg&Dec.
To instantiate our Multi-Agent QBAF Combinator module to support judgmental forecasting, we consider two novel kinds of agents realised with LLMs, in addition to ArgLLM agents. For these two novel kinds of agents, we leverage on the widely acknowledged fact that the integration of Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) Zhao2024RAGSurvey enhances LLMs by incorporating external knowledge and solving issues like hallucination Yue2024RAGFactVerification; Ge2025ResolvingEvidenceAutomatedFactChecking. We use two novel types of RAG-based agents: (1) using Relation-based Argument Mining (RbAM) Gorur2025LLMRbAM; Carstens2015TowardsRbAM to identify supporting, attacking, or neither relations between retrieved evidence from sources and claims; and (2) using the retrieved evidence from sources for generating supporting and attacking arguments, in the spirit of ArgLLMs.
Overall, our contributions, overviewed in Figure 1, are as follows:
-
(1)
Multi-Agent QBAF Combinator: a novel method to combine independently generated QBAF outputs into a single QBAF.
-
(2)
RbAM Agent: using relation-based argument mining to incorporate evidence retrieved from external sources, directly as arguments.
-
(3)
Retrieval-Augmented ArgLLM (RAG-ArgLLM) Agent: using evidence retrieved from external sources, in prompts.
-
(4)
Extensive experiments on two judgmental forecasting datasets, demonstrating that our multi-agent framework, particularly with three distinct agents, can improve forecasting accuracy and provide a transparent framework for claim verification in judgmental forecasting.
This pre-print is an extended version of aamasversion, including supplementary material.
2. Related Work
Claim verification with LLMs and RAG
The field of claim verification has witnessed rapid advancements, particularly with LLMs, which can process extensive amounts of information and have remarkable generative capabilities. Despite their strengths, LLMs encounter limitations in this task as they may generate conflicting evidence due to their diverse and incomplete training data Dmonte2024ClaimVerification, which can lead to inaccurate predictions. To address this, Zhang2023LLMFactVerificationNewsClaims use a hierarchical step-by-step prompting method that breaks down the claim, which improves the accuracy of news claim verification. Another solution is CRAVE Zheng2025Crave, which improves accuracy by first eliminating ambiguities and retrieving evidence from external sources, and then reasoning through two conflicting perspectives. Similarly, Ge2025ResolvingEvidenceAutomatedFactChecking propose using RAG combined with LLMs to resolve conflicting evidence and improve claim verification accuracy. Knowledge-based LLM approaches have been developed for structured claim verification, including generating argumentation frameworks to reason about claims (i.e. ArgLLMs Freedman2025ArgLLMs), extracting argumentation frameworks from RAG sources to reason about claims (i.e. ArgRAG Zhu2025ArgRAG), generating first order logic representations to reason about claims Wang2023ExplainableClaimVerification, and using multi-agent LLM systems for claim verification Fenza2025MultiLLMAgentsClaimVerification. We build on some of this earlier work on using LLMs to generate argumentation frameworks, but focus on combining the agents’ generated frameworks.
LLMs and Judgmental Forecasting
Recent research has also explored the capabilities of LLMs in the context of judgmental forecasting, with mixed findings. Several studies have found that using LLMs directly, without external grounding, often fails to improve forecasting accuracy compared to human judgment Schoenegger2023large; Abolghasemi2023humans. In contrast, Halawi2024approaching demonstrated that LLMs augmented with RAG can approach the performance of expert human forecasters. Moreover, they show that combining forecasts from humans and LLMs achieves the best forecasting accuracy. Other work suggests that human forecasters advised by LLM-generated inputs can further enhance performance Schoenegger2024aiaugmented. Overall, while LLMs alone rarely outperform expert forecasters, RAG appears promising for achieving forecasting accuracy comparable to humans, which motivated us to incorporate it in our pipeline.
Combining Argumentation Frameworks
In computational argumentation, there has been some work on merging argumentation frameworks. Marquis2005MergingArgumentationSystems; Marquis2007MergingDungArgumentation develop a merging pipeline that aligns agents’ frameworks into a common domain, uses minimal edit distance operators to merge attack relations, and then votes on extensions to produce group level consensus arguments. Cayrol2011WeightedArgumentationSystems generalise this by introducing weighted argumentation frameworks that embed relative strengths of disagreement, producing a single weighted argumentation framework. Leite2015MergingArgumentationSystems merge argumentation frameworks using a semantic approach that selects arguments and attacks of an agent that vary the least from other agents. Delobelle2016MergingAFs merge the sets of acceptable arguments rather than merging argumentation frameworks directly. Argumentative exchanges Rago2023AX allow combining knowledge from argumentation agents, but in a selected and distributed manner. In this paper, we focus on merging QBAFs, a topic that, to our knowledge, has not been studied before.
3. Preliminaries
A Bipolar Argumentation Framework (BAF) Cayrol2005BAF is a triple , where: is a set of arguments; is a relation of attack; and is a relation of support, where and are disjoint (). A Quantitative Bipolar Argumentation Framework (QBAF) Baroni2019gradual is a tuple where: is a BAF and is a total function, with the base score of . Arguments in QBAFs are then evaluated using gradual semantics, i.e. total functions often in the form , which assign a strength to each argument. One such semantics is the Discontinuity-Free Quantitative Argumentation Debate (DF-QuAD) Rago2016DFQuAD, where for a given QBAF , for any with attackers with strengths , supporters with strengths and , DF-QuAD computes ’s strength as , , where, for any , is if and otherwise, while is defined as follows: for and , if then ; else if then ; otherwise .
In this paper, we adapt the notation of a BAF/QBAF for an argument from Rago2023AX, as follows. For a QBAF and a BAF, for any , let a path from to be for some (referred to as the length of , denoted ) where , and, for any , . Let and indicate the set of all paths from to , and the number of paths in , respectively. Then, for , is a BAF/QBAF for iff (i) ; (ii) ; (iii) . In essence, a BAF/QBAF for is essentially a tree with as the root, instead of a multi-tree considered in Rago2023AX.
We also use pro/con arguments in QBAFs as in Rago2023AX. Let be a QBAF for . Then, the pro arguments and con arguments for are, respectively: ; .
4. Multi-Agent Claim Verification
To verify claims using multiple agents, we propose a method to combine the outputs of independently-generated QBAFs. Our method produces a combined QBAF by clustering the arguments across the independently-generated QBAFs using a similarity measure, followed by aggregating their base scores. This allows us to capture a diverse argumentative perspective. We assume that the independently-generated QBAFs are such that there is no that is an attack in one of the QBAFs and a support in another, i.e. assuming a lingua franca for the relations as in Rago2023AX.
To determine whether arguments should be combined, we first need a formal notion of their similarity. We thus define a similarity function for clustering arguments.
Definition 0.
Let be a set of arguments. A similarity function is such that, for , and for , .
This definition ensures that the similarity of an argument to itself is maximal and that the similarity function is independent of the order in which arguments are compared.
To aggregate multiple base scores assigned to similar arguments, we define a base score aggregation function. This function allows for the aggregation of vectors of base scores into a single representative value.
Definition 0.
Let . A base score aggregation function w.r.t. , is such that:
-
(1)
for any , for any permutation of the elements of , (order-independence);
-
(2)
for any , (boundedness);
-
(3)
for any , (idempotence);
-
(4)
for any with and , if then (monotonicity).
This definition ensures that base score aggregation functions do not depend on the order in which the elements in their input are presented, always return a number which lies within the range of the provided base scores, if all elements in the input are the same then the output is the common element, and it is monotonic w.r.t. the inputs. We consider two instantiations of the base score aggregation function : average aggregation, i.e. ; and maximum aggregation, i.e. . It is easy to see that both aggregation functions satisfy Definition 4 (in particular both functions are order-independent, bounded, idempotent, and monotonic – see Appendix Proofs for the proof).
Next, we define what it means to aggregate a set of QBAFs into a combined QBAF, given a similarity function and a base score aggregation function. This combined QBAF captures argument clusters, relations between them, and their aggregated base scores.
Definition 0.
Let be QBAFs, where, for , . Let , , and . Let be a similarity function, and be a similarity threshold. Let be a base score aggregation function wrt . Then, the combined QBAF is as follows:
-
•
satisfies the following properties:
-
(1)
, such that
-
(2)
, such that iff (i) and with or , and (ii) .
-
(1)
-
•
;
-
•
;
-
•
, .
The first property ensures assignment of each argument to a unique cluster, forming a singleton if no other properties apply. The second property ensures that any two arguments are in the same cluster if and only if they both have the same relation (attack or support) towards arguments in the same parent cluster and meet the threshold of the similarity function. Combined QBAFs preserve relations by adding relations between clustersand aggregating the base scores according to the clusters. Note that, not only each attack/support between clusters results from lifting an attack/support between arguments, but also each attack/support between arguments is captured by some attack/support between clusters. Formally:
lemmalifting Let . Then, (or ) iff and such that where (or , respectively).
Example 0.
Given two QBAFs, and . We assume a similarity function such that , , and all other possible argument pairs have similarity below the threshold . Let be the arithmetic mean . We construct the combined QBAF as follows: . . . .
propositionqbaf Let be QBAFs, for , where, for , . Then, the combined QBAF is a QBAF.
propositionqbafforf Let be QBAFs for the same argument , for , where, for , . Then, the combined QBAF is a QBAF for .
propositionqbafprocon Let be QBAFs for the same argument , for , where, for , . Then, the combined QBAF from Definition 4 preserves pro/con arguments in the original QBAFs, i.e., for () the set of pro-arguments (con-arguments, respectively) for :
, and
.
Note that arguments without any similarities with other arguments (e.g. in Example 4) form singleton clusters (e.g. in the same example). Note that we do not cluster arguments with different parents or with the same parent but in different relations. Thus, in Example 4, we do not cluster and (as they do not share a parent) or and (as they have opposite stances for the same parent) even if they are similar. Clustered arguments are made to share the same incoming relations in the combined QBAF. Thus, in Example 4, and in the cluster share supporter .
In the remainder of the paper, we assume that the QBAFs are trees as in Example 4 (and thus acyclic graphs) for claim .
To construct a combined QBAF satisfying Definition 4, we define a bottom-up algorithm that clusters arguments layer by layer, based on the similarity function. The Multi-Agent QBAF Combinator algorithm starts from a given claim argument and then clusters its supporters and attackers, recursively clustering their children, until the maximum depth of the input QBAFs is reached. For each cluster, the algorithm aggregates their base scores.
Lines 1-2 initialise the combined QBAF with singleton clusters for every argument in the union QBAF . We set the ‘previous layer’ to the root, which represents the parent arguments in the previous layer. The algorithm then executes recursively layer by layer, Lines 4-12 merge clusters in and build a set of clusters ‘merged’ at the current depth. Arguments are in the same cluster if they support or attack the same parent argument and are similar. Otherwise, they are placed in separate clusters. Lines 13-18 add the relation between ‘merged’ clusters to the combined QBAF, and assign clusters their aggregated base score. Line 19 updates ‘previous layer’ to contain all merged arguments in the previous layer, enabling the algorithm to iterate to the next layer.
Example 0.
In line 1, the combined QBAF is initialized with singleton clusters of all arguments in the union QBAF: , and the base score of is set to . In line 2, the ‘previous layer’ is set to .
At depth 1, ‘merged’ is set to in line 4. Lines 5-12 process all arguments in ‘previous layer’ ( in depth 1). Lines 6-12 goes through as and . so ‘merged’=. so ‘merged’. Line 8 merges clusters in the combined QBAF, .
Lines 13-18 goes through all merged clusters and all arguments in ‘previous layer’. Then, the base scores are added in line 14, , , . Lines 15-18 adds support (attack) relations if there is an argument in the cluster that is supporting (attacking) an argument in the ‘previous layer’. So, as , and as .
Before starting depth 2, line 19 assigns the union of all arguments that were in ‘merged’ to ‘previous layer’. ‘Previous layer’.
‘merged’ is set to in line 4. Lines 5-12 goes through all arguments in ‘previous layer’ ( in depth 1). Lines 6-12 goes through as . so . Line 8 merges the clusters in the combined QBAF, .
Lines 13-18 goes through all merged clusters and all arguments in ‘previous layer’. Then, the base scores are added in line 14, . Lines 15-18 as .
Finally, the algorithm returns as the combined QBAF.
propositionalgorithm Algorithm 1 terminates and returns a combined QBAF in polynomial time.
Note that we have defined the combination process algorithmically, however the Multi-Agent QBAF Combinator can be seen as a judge agent. In this view, the generating agents act as independent experts providing potentially conflicting evidence () and the judge reconciles these opinions.
5. LLM-Agents for QBAF Generation
In this section, we describe the three LLM-agent variants we consider: Argumentative LLM (ArgLLM) agents, Retrieval-Augmented ArgLLM (RAG-ArgLLM) agents (extending ArgLLMs with RAG, to incorporate external textual evidence), and RbAM agents (complementary approach, which constructs a QBAF by directly using the external sources as arguments and classifying these arguments stances towards the claim). Each of these agents independently generates QBAFs. We use approaches based on ArgLLMs in this paper instead of ArgRAG because the QBAFs generated for our multi-agent framework to combine QBAFs must be acyclic trees, while it is possible that ArgRAG could generate a QBAF with cycles.
5.1. ArgLLM Agent
The ArgLLM Freedman2025ArgLLMs agent extracts QBAFs from LLMs and formally reasons over them using gradual semantics. The ArgLLMs agent has three components: (1) Argument Generation, produces a BAF for a given claim , given a generative model , and parameters for argument generation , such as the prompt used, and the number of arguments to be generated in depth and breadth, denoted formally as ; (2) Intrinsic Argument Strength Attribution, assigns base scores to the BAF using an evaluative function to obtain a QBAF , defined as ; (3) Argument Strength Calculation, applies a gradual semantics to the QBAF to obtain an assessment for the claim , denoted as .
5.2. RAG-ArgLLM Agent
To strengthen the factual grounding of generated arguments, we extend the ArgLLM agent with RAG. In this work, ArgLLM agents are prompted with textual evidence from external sources, allowing it to generate more complete and informed arguments.
Let be a set of textual evidence relevant to a claim , retrieved from a collection of sources, and let be a generative model. We define Retrieval-Augmented ArgLLMs as one in which in the argument generation function is a modified prompt, RAG prompt for ArgLLMs, which incorporates the retrieved evidence .
Figure 3 shows how RAG improves a result for a single claim.
5.3. RbAM Agent
In addition to RAG-ArgLLM agents, we introduce a complementary approach based on RbAM. In this setting, textual evidence is not used to generate new arguments but is instead seen as arguments. The RbAM component classifies the relation between each textual evidence and the claim as support, attack, or neither, yielding a QBAF in which the retrieved evidence supports or attacks the claim.
The RbAM Agent, treats each retrieved evidence as an argument, and the RbAM component determines whether it is related to the claim . We adopt the best performing RbAM method from Gorur2025LLMRbAM: a few-shot prompt-based classification approach using the Mixtral-8x7B jiang2024mixtral model, which Gorur2025LLMRbAM show significantly outperforms prior baselines on the RbAM task.
6. Experimental Set-up
First, we evaluate our individual LLM-Agents introduced in §5: (1) the ArgLLM agent (as a baseline), (2) the RAG-ArgLLM agent, and (3) the RbAM agent.
Then, we evaluate our multi-agent framework by combining the outputs of these agents in various configurations: (1) pairs of ArgLLM agents across six base models, (2) pairs of RAG-ArgLLM agents across six base models, (3) two-agent combinations: combining RAG-ArgLLM agents that use different external sources (The NYTimes and The Guardian), (4) a three-agent combination: combining the ArgLLM agent with the two different RAG-ArgLLM agents, each using a different external source.
In our experiments, we use the Jina-V3 embeddings Sturua2025JinaV3 with cosine similarity for the similarity function . This embedding model was selected due to its strong performance on semantic similarity tasks and compact size111At the time of experimentation, Jina-V3 ranked fourth on the MTEB leaderboard: https://huggingface.co/spaces/mteb/leaderboard . In our experiments we use the similarity threshold 222In our initial experiments yielded the best results..
6.1. Datasets
All of the configurations are executed on two judgmental forecasting datasets.
GJOpen
333https://www.gjopen.com/A forecasting arguments dataset Gorur2025Coherence, which contains 2923 rephrased question-answer pairs from Good Judgment Open. Each pair was converted into a natural-language forecasting argument (claim) using the Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3 LLM jiang2023mistral, followed by manual review. The dataset covers both binary and multiple-choice forecasting questions, and is publicly available.
Metaculus
444https://www.metaculus.com/A subset of the Forecasting dataset from Halawi2024approaching, which originally includes 8881 binary forecasting questions. We picked only the questions that have been resolved and were open between the dates of September 2023 and September 2024, which yielded 388 forecasting questions. We converted the questions into forecasting arguments (claims) using the Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3 LLM, followed by manual review, similarly to Gorur2025Coherence.
6.2. External Sources
To support RAG, we retrieve evidence from two news article sites.
NYTimes
We collected all NYTimes article abstracts published between January 2023 and December 2024 using the NYTimes API.
Guardian
For each forecasting argument, we used GPT‑4o‑mini to generate five targeted search queries (see Appendix Query Generation for the Guardian API for details). To get article abstracts these queries were submitted to the Guardian API.
Retrieval Pipeline
For both sources, to optimise evidence retrieval, we embedded each abstract using the Jina-V3 embedding model Sturua2025JinaV3. The resulting embeddings were stored in a vector database, ChromaDB, to support real-time retrieval. We then retrieved the top five relevant articles for each claim, restricted to abstracts dated before the closing date of the claim.
6.3. Models
We evaluate all configurations using the following LLMs: Mixtral (Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1) jiang2024mixtral, Mistral (Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3) jiang2023mistral, Gemma (Gemma-7b-it) gemmateam2024gemma, Gemma-2 (Gemma-2-9b-it) gemma2, Llama-3 (Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct) llama3, and GPT-4o (GPT-4o-mini) gpt-4o-mini models. These models were chosen to ensure their training data cut-off dates preceded the forecasting events, thereby avoiding data contamination.
7. Results
7.1. Individual Agents
ArgLLM and RAG-ArgLLM Agents
We first evaluate the ArgLLM and RAG-ArgLLM agents (using the NYTimes and the Guardian) with their four variations depth 1 (with 0.5 base score and estimated base score assigned to the claim) and depth 2 (with 0.5 base score and estimated base score assigned to the claim). Table 1 (minus the last column) reports results of the ArgLLMs and the RAG-ArgLLMs agents, using the NYTimes and the Guardian, on the GJOpen and Metaculus datasets.
Retrieval improves forecasting accuracy on the Metaculus dataset in nearly all variations. The highest accuracy increase comes when the external sources are used with Gemma-2 (with depth 1, estimated base score), accuracy improves from 68% to 81% (for both NYTimes and Guardian). The RAG-ArgLLM agents that did not improve accuracy were already performing well and the external sources changed the argumentative reasoning of those models. On GJOpen, the improvement is less consistent, however, using the Guardian seems to improve forecasting accuracy more compared to using the NYTimes. The highest accuracy increase occurs when using the NYTimes with Llama-3 (with depth 2, 0.5 base score) where the accuracy improves from 63% to 75%. We additionally analyse the overlap between supporting and attacking arguments generated by RAG-ArgLLM agents when different external sources are used. Table 3 in Appendix 9 shows that overlap is generally high, indicating that different sources often lead to substantially different argumentative structures.
RbAM Agents
The last column in Table 1 shows the results of the RbAM agent with two external sources (the NYTimes and the Guardian) on the two forecasting datasets.
The RbAM agent does not seem to perform that well for the GJOpen dataset, this is because the base scores generated are very small due to the abstracts not having a proper argumentative structure. One possible solution is to prompt a language model to extract or generate structured arguments from each abstract, which we leave to future work. The Guardian as an external source helped more than the NYTimes on the GJOpen dataset. This is possibly because of its more relevant context. On the other hand, the RbAM agent performs better for the Metaculus datasets, although it still does not surpass the best ArgLLM or RAG-ArgLLM agent. Therefore, we decided not to combine QBAFs obtained from the RbAM agent as the accuracy was very low.
7.2. Multi-Agent Claim Verification
ArgLLM Agent Pairs
We first evaluate our multi-agent framework across six pairs of ArgLLM agents with their four variations depth 1 (with 0.5 base score and estimated base score assigned to the claim) and depth 2 (with 0.5 base score and estimated base score assigned to the claim). For each variation, we apply two aggregation functions, average and maximum, to combine argument base scores. Table 4 in Appendix 10.1 reports results for depth 1 and depth 2 for the GJOpen and Metaculus datasets. Each ArgLLM agent independently generates arguments and their base scores, then our multi-agent framework combines pairs of ArgLLM agents.
The results show variation across individual ArgLLM agents. This variation reflects differences in the agents’ argumentative reasoning capabilities. Across all variations, the combination of argumentative reasoning produced by the ArgLLM agents frequently outperforms at least one of the individual models, and in several cases outperform both. Our framework improves performance when the paired agents bring complementary argumentative reasoning. For example, Table 2 shows Llama-3 combined with the other agent tend to improve on accuracy which could mean that Llama-3 generates argumentative reasoning that complements other agents. The instances where the framework does not perform well are when a base agent already performs well individually. This could suggest that the second agent contributes less useful or redundant arguments. For instance, Gemma-2 already performs well, so combining it with other agents does not improve results.
Overall, the multi-agent framework can improve forecasting performance, particularly when the base agents offer diverse argumentative perspectives. Average aggregation generally outperforms max aggregation, suggesting that a moderate base score is more effective than selecting the strongest base score.
RAG-ArgLLM Agent Pairs
Next, we evaluate our multi-agent framework across six pairs of RAG-ArgLLM agents with their four variations depth 1 (with 0.5 base score and estimated base score assigned to the claim) and depth 2 (with 0.5 base score and estimated base score assigned to the claim) and the NYTimes and the Guardian as external sources. Tables 5 and 6 in Appendix 10.2 report results for the multi-agent framework using the RAG-ArgLLM agents with the NYTimes and the Guardian (respectively) for the GJOpen and Metaculus datasets.
Results show that multi-agent framework with the RAG-ArgLLM agents often outperforms at least one of the individual RAG-ArgLLM agents, and in some cases exceed both. This similarly confirms combining QBAFs improve performance when the paired agents bring complementary argumentative reasoning, even when arguments are retrieved from the external sources. Notably, looking at Table 2, combinations involving Llama-3 often improves accuracy despite Llama-3 not performing well individually with the RAG-ArgLLM agents, indicating its arguments remain complementary when combined with other models. We also observe that average aggregation typically outperforms max, aligning with earlier findings for the multi-agent framework. Performance gains are more consistent on the Metaculus dataset, where the paired agents often match or exceed both individual models. On the other hand, improvements on the GJOpen dataset are more dependent on the choice of the external source. The Guardian tends to be more effective than the NYTimes, consistent with the findings for the single-agent RAG-ArgLLM and RbAM agents.
Overall, our multi-agent framework applied to the RAG-ArgLLM agent pairs shows that combining retrieval-augmented models can also be beneficial, particularly when the combination is done with average aggregation and when the base models offer diverse argumentative perspectives.
Two-Agent Combination
We then explore the performance of combining two different agents, analysing three variants: combining two RAG-ArgLLM agents that use different sources (the NYTimes and the Guardian), and combining standard ArgLLM agents with the RAG-ArgLLM agents (using either the NYTimes or the Guardian).
Tables 7 and 8 in Appendix 10.3 show the results of combining two RAG-ArgLLM agents, where one uses the NYTimes and the other uses the Guardian as external sources. The combination of the RAG-ArgLLM agents with different sources often yields significant improvements, particularly in depth 1. Mistral (Guardian) also proves to be a consistently strong complementary agent in Depth 1, improving or maintaining accuracy in most pairings across both datasets (five out of six in both). However, performance in depth 2 is less consistent and often leads to a degradation in accuracy. This is likely due to the generation of irrelevant arguments in the second layer. Nonetheless, even in depth 2 some improvement is still observable over single agents.
Tables 9 and 10 in Appendix 10.3 present results where the ArgLLM agents are paired with the RAG-ArgLLM agents using the NYTimes. Tables 11 and 12 in Appendix 10.3 show similar pairings but with the Guardian as the external source. The results indicate that this hybrid approach is highly effective. The RAG-ArgLLM agents introduce externally grounded arguments that can complement the internal reasoning of the ArgLLM agents. The benefit is particularly clear when using the NYTimes. For example, Mistral (NYTimes) often improved or maintained the accuracy of its ArgLLM partner on the GJOpen dataset (five out of six instances) for average aggregation. The Guardian source also shows strong performance in specific pairings. However, the RAG-ArgLLM agents using the Guardian does not seem to improve accuracy when it is combined with the ArgLLM agents as much.
Overall, our multi-agent framework applied to two different agents demonstrates that combining different external sources can be beneficial. The most significant gains are achieved when agents leverage different external sources.
Three-Agent Combination
We extend the analysis of our multi-agent framework to three agents, where a standard ArgLLM is combined with two RAG-ArgLLM agents, one using the NYTimes and the other the Guardian. The results, presented in Tables 13-24 in Appendix 10.4, demonstrate the potential to increase accuracy by increasing the diversity of argumentative reasoning.
The addition of a third agent often leads to more robust and accurate forecasts, particularly on the GJOpen dataset. The most consistent improvements are observed when the base ArgLLM agent is a strong performer itself, such as with Gemma-2 or GPT-4o. This suggests that when an agent’s internal reasoning is strong, it provides a solid foundation that can be effectively enhanced by complementary information from external sources, thereby improving the forecasting accuracy. While the three-agent combination does not always outperform the best single agent in the trio, it consistently shows a clear improvement over the other two individual agents. On the Metaculus dataset, the benefits are also apparent, although the strong individual agent performance sometimes sets a high bar for improvement. Both aggregation methods show instances of improvement. However, average aggregation performs better than max aggregation in most instances, supporting the evidence from previous experiments.
Overall, the three-agent framework, by increasing the diversity of complementary reasoning, can improve forecasting accuracy whether from different models or different external data sources.
8. Conclusions and Future Work
In this paper, we introduce a novel multi-agent framework which integrates multiple perspectives by combining QBAFs generated by diverse LLM-based agents. We designed and evaluated three distinct agent types: the baseline ArgLLM agents (which relies on internal LLM knowledge), the RAG-ArgLLM agents and the RbAM agents (which ground their reasoning in external sources).
Our empirical evaluation on the GJOpen and Metaculus datasets yielded several key insights. First, the RAG-ArgLLM agents consistently outperformed the ArgLLM agents, especially on the Metaculus dataset. This confirms that grounding argumentative reasoning with external evidence can improve forecasting accuracy. While the RbAM agents showed promise on the Metaculus dataset, they did not perform well on the GJOpen dataset. Second, our multi-agent framework applied to pairs of the same agent types, in some instances improved forecasting accuracy. Performance gains were most significant when the agents generated complementary argumentative perspectives. Pairing an ArgLLM agent with a RAG-ArgLLM agent, or combining two RAG-ArgLLM agents using different external sources (the NYTimes and the Guardian), proved highly effective. This suggests integrating both internal LLM reasoning and external evidence can be beneficial. Finally, instantiating our framework with three agents, an ArgLLM and two RAG-ArgLLMs with different sources, yielded further improvements. By increasing the diversity of reasoning and external sources, the three-agent framework produced more robust reasoning. This suggests that combining more complementary perspectives yields better results.
Building on these findings, we plan to explore several promising directions: (1) investigating in more depth which models to pick while combining their argumentative reasoning; (2) studying whether an interactive debate could improve forecasting accuracy (e.g. using a similar framework to Rago2023AX); (3) experimenting with a larger number of frameworks; (4) evaluating the framework’s robustness against real-world data irregularities such as noisy/misleading data, biased sources, and a wider variety of question types; and (5) investigating the practical deployment of the system, including optimising the computational cost and addressing the integration challenges into existing workflows.
This research was partially funded by the ERC under the EU’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (grant agreement no. 101020934, ADIX), by J.P. Morgan and by the Royal Academy of Engineering, UK, under the Research Chairs and Senior Research Fellowships scheme (grant agreement no. RCSRF2021\11\45).
References
Appendix
Proofs
Proposition 0.
Both and satisfy Definition 4.
Proof.
To prove and satisfy Definition 4 we fix and .
Order-independence For , the sum is invariant under permutations, hence so is . For , the set is unchanged by permutation, so its maximum is unchanged.
Boundedness Let and . For , since for all , , then . For , , so .
Idempotence If , then and .
Monotonicity Let with for all . For , , then . Thus .
For , since each , let (i.e. ), by assumption hence . Thus .
All four properties hold for both aggregation functions. ∎
*
Proof.
Let us first prove the case for .
() By construction of from Definition 4, since , it must be the case that , where and . We know from the same definition that , and so it must be the case that for some .
() We know that , for some , and so, according to property (1) in Definition 4, such that , and such that . Then, also by Definition 4, if , which we know is the case, as and so .
The proof similarly follows for . ∎
*
Proof.
By construction (from Definition 4), where . Each belongs to exactly one cluster (property 1 from Definition 4). Hence, is a set of arguments. Thus, by construction of from Definition 4, . The proof follows similarly for . Let us prove by contradiction that . Assume that . Then, by Lemma 4, . This cannot be the case as it contradicts the lingua-franca assumption that no ordered pair is an attack in one QBAF and a support in another. Hence, we have the contradiction and . For each cluster , with , by Definition 4. Since, maps to , by Definition 4, is a total function. Therefore, satisfies the definition of a QBAF. ∎
*
Proof.
We know from Proposition 2 that is a QBAF, thus we only need to show that is a QBAF for , so we take the three conditions for this in turn.
(i) Let us prove by contradiction that .
Assume that .
Then, it must be the case that . Then, by Lemma 4, .
However, we know that this cannot be the case as (from property (i) of the definition of a QBAF for )
.
Hence, we have the contradiction and .
(ii) Let us show that .
We know that (from property (ii) of the definition of a QBAF for ), where . Each relation in this path is .
Then, by Lemma 4, , which creates a unique path .
Therefore, .
(iii)
Let us prove by contradiction that . Assume that .
Let this path be . By Lemma 4, each relation in this cycle corresponds to an underlying relation , where and
, giving a path , where . However, cannot have cycles (from property (iii) of a QBAF for ). This contradicts our assumption. Therefore, no cycles can exist in .
All three properties hold, therefore is a QBAF for . ∎
*
Proof.
Let us first prove the case for pro-arguments.
We know from Proposition 2 that is a QBAF for .
() We know that .
By definition of pro-arguments, the unique path has an even number of attacks, i.e. is even. Each relation in this path is .
By Lemma 4, each relation in this path corresponds to an underlying relation , which creates a path .
Thus, . Since is even, must also be even. By definition of pro-arguments, this means .
() We know that , for some . By the definition of pro-arguments, this means the path in has an even number of attacks, i.e. is even. Each relation in this path is . By Lemma 4, each relation in this path corresponds to a relation , which creates a path . Thus, . Since is even, must also be even. By definition, this means .
The same logic applies to con arguments, where the number of attacks is odd. Thus the combined QBAF preserves the set of pro/con arguments of the original argument within the clustered arguments. ∎