Title: In-the-Flow Agentic System Optimization for Effective Planning and Tool Use
Authors: Zhuofeng Li, Haoxiang Zhang, Seungju Han, Sheng Liu, Jianwen Xie et al.
Published: 2025-10-07
Source: https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.05592
ArXiv ID: 2510.05592

In-the-Flow Agentic System Optimization for Effective Planning and Tool Use
Abstract
Outcome-driven reinforcement learning has advanced reasoning in large language models (LLMs), but prevailing tool-augmented approaches train a single, monolithic policy that interleaves thoughts and tool calls under full context; this scales poorly with long horizons and diverse tools and generalizes weakly to new scenarios. Agentic systems offer a promising alternative by decomposing work across specialized modules, yet most remain training-free or rely on offline training decoupled from the live dynamics of multi-turn interaction. We introduce AgentFlow, a trainable, in-the-flow agentic framework that coordinates four modules (planner, executor, verifier, generator) through an evolving memory and directly optimizes its planner inside the multi-turn loop. To train on-policy in live environments, we propose Flow-based Group Refined Policy Optimization (Flow-GRPO), which tackles long-horizon, sparse-reward credit assignment by converting multi-turn optimization into a sequence of tractable single-turn policy updates. It broadcasts a single, verifiable trajectory-level outcome to every turn to align local planner decisions with global success and stabilizes learning with group-normalized advantages. Across ten benchmarks, AgentFlow with a 7B-scale backbone outperforms top-performing baselines with average accuracy gains of 14.9% on search, 14.0% on agentic, 14.5% on mathematical, and 4.1% on scientific tasks, even surpassing larger proprietary models like GPT-4o. Further analyses confirm the benefits of in-the-flow optimization, showing improved planning, enhanced tool-calling reliability, and positive scaling with model size and reasoning turns.
††footnotetext: *Equal contribution. †Co-senior authors. Work was partially done while ZL and HZ were visiting Stanford.1 Introduction
Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have unlocked remarkable reasoning capabilities, largely driven by reinforcement learning (RL) from outcome-based feedback. By fine-tuning models to maximize verifiable rewards, LLMs like DeepSeek-R1 (Guo et al., 2025) and SimpleRL (Zeng et al., 2025b) have demonstrated sophisticated behaviors in self-correction and multi-step deduction.
A complementary line of work augments LLMs with external tools (e.g., web search, code execution) for knowledge retrieval and precise computation. Tool-integrated reasoning (TIR) extends reinforcement learning with verifiable rewards to learn when and how to call tools by interleaving reasoning (e.g., <think>) with tool invocations (e.g., <tool call>) under full context (Jin et al., 2025; Song et al., 2025; Chen et al., 2025; Feng et al., 2025). Early systems supported only a single tool type, whereas recent work enables multi-tool settings by encoding tool metadata into prompts (Dong et al., 2025; Qian et al., 2025a; Zhang et al., 2025). However, these methods still train a single, monolithic policy under multi-turn full-context reasoning, which introduces scaling challenges: (i) training becomes increasingly unstable as horizons lengthen, tool diversity grows, and environments shift with tool feedback (Wang et al., 2025c; Mai et al., 2025; Moonshot AI, 2025; Xue et al., 2025); and (ii) inference-time generalization remains brittle to unseen tasks or tools (Dong et al., 2025; Hu et al., 2025b).
Agentic systems (Wu et al., 2024; Hong et al., 2024; Hu et al., 2025b) offer a promising alternative to monolithic tool-integrated reasoning models. They consist of multiple modules—often distinct LLMs with prescribed roles (e.g., planner, critic) or specialized components with dedicated tools and capabilities (e.g., executor, coder)—that coordinate via shared memory and inter-module communication. By decomposing problems into sub-goals and iterating over multiple turns, these systems can tackle tasks that demand diverse tools, long horizons, or multi-stage reasoning. However, achieving robust coordination in such systems ultimately requires training, since handcrafted logic or static prompting cannot reliably capture when and how modules should collaborate, adapt to evolving tool outputs, or recover from early mistakes. At the same time, they introduce new training challenges: modules coordinate sequentially, outcome feedback propagates through long reasoning chains, and state distributions shift with evolving tool outputs. As a result, most systems remain training-free, relying on handcrafted logic or prompting heuristics. While some employ supervised fine-tuning or preference optimization for key modules (Motwani et al., 2024; Park et al., 2025), these off-policy approaches are decoupled from live dynamics and learn poorly from downstream successes or failures. Thus, agentic systems struggle with sparse rewards, brittle adaptation, and inefficient orchestration in dynamic environments.
To address the central challenge of learning long-horizon reasoning with sparse rewards in tool-integrated agentic systems, we introduce AgentFlow, a trainable framework for effective planning and tool use (Figure 2). AgentFlow comprises four specialized modules—planner, executor, verifier, and generator—that interact iteratively over multiple turns via a shared evolving memory and a toolset. The system operates in the flow, with each turn cycling through planning, execution, and verification. Unlike prior agentic systems, AgentFlow directly optimizes its planner on-policy, inside the live multi-turn loop, allowing it to dynamically adapt to trajectories shaped by tool calls, verifier signals, and memory updates. This evolving memory serves as a deterministic, structured record of the reasoning process, enabling transparent state tracking, controllable behavior, and bounded context growth.
To train the planner on-policy within this agentic system, we need to overcome the long-horizon credit assignment problem inherent to sparse, trajectory-level rewards. We introduce Flow-based Group Refined Policy Optimization (Flow-GRPO, Figure 4), an on-policy algorithm designed for this setting. Flow-GRPO operates on in-the-flow rollouts, which capture the full trajectory of states, actions, and tool events induced by the live system. Instead of attempting to assign credit with brittle, intermediate heuristics, we assign a single, verifiable final-outcome reward to the entire trajectory and broadcast it to every turn. This design effectively transforms the multi-turn reinforcement learning challenge into a series of single-turn updates: at each turn, the planner has access to the full memory context and receives a consistent reward signal aligned with global success. This approach, coupled with group-normalized advantages to stabilize training, enables robust credit assignment and allows the planner to learn effective long-horizon strategies from sparse feedback.
We evaluate AgentFlow on ten benchmarks across diverse reasoning domains, as results highlighted in Figure 1. In our main setting, all four modules use Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct (Yang et al., 2024a) as a backbone, with only the planner trained via Flow-GRPO. AgentFlow substantially outperforms top-performing specialized tool-integrated reasoning models and agentic systems, achieving average accuracy by 14.9% on knowledge-intensive search, 14.0% on broader agentic tasks, 14.5% on mathematical reasoning, and 4.1% on scientific reasoning (§4.2). Notably, our 7B-backbone system even surpasses the 200B-parameter GPT-4o (Hurst et al., 2024) across all domains. The trained planner learns to optimize planning, enhance tool-calling reliability, and discover effective solution pathways (§4.3). Further analyses confirm that our in-the-flow optimization with Flow-GRPO is crucial, far surpassing offline supervised tuning (§4.4). Moreover, our training approach proves highly efficient, leading to increased rewards and condensed responses compared to traditional tool-integrated RL methods (§4.5). Finally, we demonstrate that these benefits generalize, with consistent gains from scaling backbone size and turn budget (§4.6).
Our work makes three key contributions: (1) We present AgentFlow, a trainable in-the-flow agentic system that directly optimizes its planner inside the multi-turn loop. By coordinating specialized modules through an evolving memory, it enables adaptive long-horizon planning and robust tool orchestration. (2) We introduce Flow-GRPO, an on-policy, outcome-driven algorithm that hat converts multi-turn RL into a sequence of tractable single-turn policy updates by broadcasting a single, verifiable final-outcome reward to every turn. (3) Through comprehensive experiments on ten benchmarks, we show that AgentFlow with a 7B backbone outperforms specialized baselines and even larger proprietary models. Further analyses reveal improved planning, enhanced tool-calling reliability, and positive scaling with model size and turn budgets.
2 Preliminary
Reinforcement learning for reasoning LLMs.
Recent progress in reasoning LLMs has been significantly driven by reinforcement learning from outcome feedback, using a verifiable reward signal (Shao et al., 2024; Yu et al., 2025). This paradigm fine-tunes a language model to maximize an outcome-based reward while remaining close to a reference policy. Formally, the objective is to optimize a policy LLM to generate a response for a given query from dataset :
where is the outcome-based reward, is a reference model to prevent policy collapse, and controls KL regularization. Algorithms like Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) (Shao et al., 2024) implement this by sampling groups of responses, normalizing advantages by their rewards, and updating the policy with a clipped objective to encourage high-reward outputs.
Tool-integrated reasoning models (LLM agents).
LLMs can be augmented with external tools to access knowledge and perform precise computation under reinforcement learning with outcome-based reward. As shown in Figure 3(a), the LLM interleaves reasoning and tool calls, producing a chain of thought within <think></think> tokens followed by tool invocations (e.g., <tool call></tool call>). The resulting trajectory is a sequence of model generations and tool observations: , where denotes the context, the generated action (thought + tool call), and the tool’s execution result. The policy model is then trained to maximize a final outcome reward. Prior work has explored single- and multi-tool settings for search and code execution (Jin et al., 2025; Chen et al., 2025; Feng et al., 2025; Qian et al., 2025a).
Agentic systems with tool usage.
An alternative approach is the use of agentic systems (Wu et al., 2024; Hong et al., 2024; Lu et al., 2025). As shown in Figure 3(b), these frameworks deploy multiple specialized modules—often distinct LLMs with carefully designed prompts and roles—within a collaborative workflow. By decomposing tasks and assigning subproblems to modules with dedicated tools and capabilities (e.g., planner, coder, critic), they can address complex problems such as web browsing, document processing, and multi-stage programming that exceed the scope of a single model. A central limitation, however, is that these systems are typically training-free: modules remain frozen pre-trained models orchestrated by handcrafted logic or prompting heuristics.
3 In-the-Flow Agentic System Optimization
We aim to bridge the gap between trainable but monolithic reasoning models and flexible yet static agentic systems. We present AgentFlow, a flexible and trainable agentic system that integrates four specialized modules with an evolving memory (§3.1). Unlike prior agentic systems, AgentFlow directly optimizes the planner within the multi-turn loop of an agentic system (§3.2).
3.1 AgentFlow: An In-the-Flow Agentic System
We propose AgentFlow, a general-purpose tool-integrated agentic framework for solving complex reasoning tasks through fine-grained planning and effective tool use within a multi-turn architecture. As shown in Figure 2, the framework comprises four specialized modules—Action Planner , Tool Executor , Execution Verifier , and Solution Generator —coordinated by a shared evolving memory and a toolset . These modules interact sequentially and iteratively to perform action planning, tool execution, context verification, and solution generation, thereby enabling tool-integrated reasoning across multiple turns.
We formalize AgentFlow’s problem-solving process as a multi-turn Markov Decision Process (MDP). Given a query and a toolset , the system proceeds for a variable number of turns. Let denote the memory state before turn (with initialized from ). At turn , the planner (a trainable policy ) formulates a sub-goal, selects an appropriate tool , and retrieves relevant context from memory, producing an action: .
The executor invokes the chosen tool with context, yielding an execution observation . The verifier then evaluates whether is valid and whether the accumulated memory is sufficient to solve the query, producing a binary verification signal . If , the memory is updated deterministically to incorporate new evidence: , where denotes the memory-update function, which records agent-process information in a concise, structured form along with contextual details such as time, turn index, and error signals.
The process repeats until (termination) or a predefined maximum turn budget is reached. Upon termination at turn , the solution generator produces the final solution , conditioned on the query and the accumulated memory: .
This formulation decomposes multi-turn, tool-integrated reasoning into structured, observable transitions. After turns, the trajectory records the history of planning, execution, and verification. The joint generative process can be written as
where are explicit realizations of the latent reasoning chain. Importantly, unlike latent thoughts behind trajectories, our memory is an explicit and deterministic record of the reasoning process, ensuring transparency and controllability of multi-turn decisions.
3.2 In-the-Flow Reinforcement Learning Optimization
We target tool-integrated agentic systems operating under long-horizon tasks with sparse rewards. In this setting, the Action Planner (the trainable policy of AgentFlow) selects a sequence of interdependent actions while the state evolves with tool results and verifier feedback. Conventional offline training—e.g., supervised fine-tuning or preference fine-tuning on curated traces—optimizes the planner outside the active loop (Motwani et al., 2024; Park et al., 2025). This decoupling prevents real-time coordination with the executor, verifier, and solution generator, induces distribution shift between training and deployment, and provides limited guidance about which intermediate decisions truly matter. As a result, planners often adapt poorly to multi-turn dynamics; early errors cascade, and post-hoc fixes are brittle.
In-the-flow learning.
To address these issues, we optimize the planner in the flow of execution. We roll out the full AgentFlow system under the current policy, collect the actual trajectory of states, actions, and tool events it induces, and update the policy within the agentic system using a verifiable final-outcome signal. This exposes the multi-turn credit-assignment problem directly and trains the planner on the exact states it will face at inference. Our objective, Flow-GRPO, is designed to stabilize learning under sparse, trajectory-level rewards over multiple turns.
As established in §3.1, rollouts in AgentFlow define a finite-horizon MDP with a variable horizon . At turn , the planner observes the state , selects an action , the executor and verifier return , and the memory updates deterministically to .
Policy optimization objective.
The planner policy is trained to maximize the expected return over on-policy rollouts. Let be the reward for a complete trajectory . The objective is:
where a rollout is the sequence of decisions generated on-policy by .
Final-outcome reward.
Assigning credit to intermediate actions is challenging because each influences the final solution only indirectly, and their value may only emerge after several turns (e.g., error or improvement accumulation). To avoid brittle local feedback, we adopt a final-outcome-based reward: every action within a rollout receives the same global reward signal, based on the correctness of the final solution with respect to query and ground truth :
where is assigned by an LLM-as-judge rubric for semantic, numeric, and option-level equivalence (see §E.3). This propagates a trajectory-level success signal back through the reasoning chain, aligning every decision with global correctness.
Objective function.
We formalize Flow-based Group Refined Policy Optimization for the planner. The goal is to optimize the policy by maximizing the expected return over a group of parallel rollouts. For each query-label pair from training corpus , we sample a group of on-policy trajectories by running the current behavior policy inside AgentFlow, where . Let be the state at turn of rollout , the planner’s action (a token sequence of length ), and the final response. This structure is key to addressing the long-horizon credit assignment challenge: by broadcasting a single trajectory-level reward to all turns, we effectively decompose the multi-turn RL problem into a set of independent, single-turn policy updates; we provide a formal proof of this equivalence and analyze its convergence properties in §B. Each update for an action is conditioned on the full historical context encapsulated in the state and receives the same global success signal, simplifying optimization. The objective is
where is the (variable) number of turns in rollout , and
is the token-level importance ratio for the -th token of , is the PPO clipping parameter, and controls the KL penalty to a fixed reference policy .
Group-normalized advantages.
Because the reward in Eq. 4 is a single trajectory-level signal, the per-turn advantage is constant over within a rollout . We reduce variance and sharpen credit assignment across the group by using a group-normalized advantage:
4 Experiments
4.1 Experimental Setup
Implementation.
In our main experiments, all modules—Action Planner, Tool Executor, Executive Verifier, and Solution Generator—are instantiated with the Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct model (Yang et al., 2024a). Among these, only the Action Planner is trainable. The system operates with five interactive tools: Base Generator is an instance of Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct that acts as the default reasoning engine if the planner decides not to use an external tool; Python Coder generates and executes Python code given a query and returns the execution result; Google Search searches the web and returns a summarization of Top-K search results; Wikipedia Search searches articles matching a given query and returns a summarization; and Web Search returns summarized information from a given web page. During the RL fine-tuning phase, we mix data from Search-R1 (Jin et al., 2025) and DeepMath (He et al., 2025) as training data, which provides paired question-answer examples across search and mathematical domains.
Training.
We provide further details on the training setup for AgentFlow. Our Flow-GRPO implementation uses a learning rate of . The Action Planner generates actions with a sampling temperature of to balance exploration and exploitation. To prevent policy collapse and stabilize training, we incorporate a KL-divergence penalty against a reference policy with a coefficient . The maximum output length for the planner is set to 2048 tokens to ensure complete exploration during rollouts. We use a batch size of 32 with 8 rollouts per sample.
To accelerate the training speed, we limit the maximum number of turns per rollout to . The final-outcome reward signal (Eq. 4) is provided by an LLM-as-judge, for which we use GPT-4o. All tool calls are executed synchronously with a 500-second timeout to handle external service latency robustly. The LLM engines within the tools are set to a temperature of 0.0 to ensure deterministic and stable outputs. The full training process was conducted on 8 NVIDIA A100 GPUs. Further details on agent prompts and the memory update mechanism are provided in §E.1.
Evaluation.
To comprehensively evaluate tool-use capabilities of AgentFlow, we conduct experiments on four types of reasoning tasks: (1) Knowledge-intensive search including Bamboogle (Press et al., 2023), 2Wiki (Ho et al., 2020), HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018), and Musique (Trivedi et al., 2022); (2) Agentic reasoning such as GAIA (Mialon et al., 2023) (where we adopt the textual split); (3) Logic-dense mathematical reasoning including AIME2024 (Art of Problem Solving, 2025), AMC23 (MAA, 2023), and GameOf24 (Lightman et al., 2023); and (4) Scientific reasoning including GPQA (Rein et al., 2024) and MedQA (Yang et al., 2024c). To mitigate randomness, we report the average accuracy across three trials for all experiments. More evaluation details are provided in §C.
4.2 Main Results
Baselines.
As presented in Tables 1 and 2, we include five categories of baselines: (1) Open-source LLMs: Qwen2.5 (Yang et al., 2024a), Llama-3.1, and Llama-3.3 (Dubey et al., 2024); (2) Proprietary LLMs: GPT-4o-mini and GPT-4o; (3) Reasoning LLMs: supervised fine-tuning (Yang et al., 2024b), SimpleRL-reason, Open-Reasoner-Zero, General-Reasoner, and LUFFY; (4) Tool-integrated reasoning LLMs: both search-enhanced, including Iter-RetGen, Search-R1, ZeroSearch, ReSearch, StepSearch, and VerlTool, and code-enhanced, including TIR and ToRL; (5) Training-free agentic system: AutoGen. More details on baseline implementations are in §C.2.
Key insights.
AgentFlow consistently outperforms all baseline models by large margins. Compared to the best-performing 7B models without tool integration, AgentFlow achieves absolute gains of 40.7% on search (SFT), 29.9% on agentic reasoning (SFT), 15.0% on math (SimpleRL-reason), and 8.0% on scientific tasks (Luffy). Against specialized tool-integrated systems, AgentFlow surpasses the top models by 14.9% in search (AutoGen), 14.0% in agentic reasoning (Search-R1), 14.5% in math (ToRL), and 4.1% in science (TIR). Notably, our 7B-backbone AgentFlow even outperforms the 200B-parameter GPT-4o across all domains, with gains ranging from 8.2% to 18.0%. A detailed analysis is provided in §D.1.
4.3 In-depth Analysis of Optimized Planning
Flow-GRPO optimizes tool usage.
We compare tool usage distributions before and after in-the-flow RL training. Figure 6 shows results on two knowledge-intensive tasks, 2Wiki and MedQA, which exhibit distinct optimization patterns alongside improved task accuracy. For 2Wiki, which requires broad factual knowledge, Flow-GRPO optimizes the planner to increase Google Search usage by 42.0%. In contrast, for the specialized MedQA benchmark, which requires deep, domain-specific information retrieval, fine-tuning shifts the planner away from general tools, reducing Google Search calls (66.210.9%) in favor of in-document Web Search (019.5%) and specialized Wikipedia Search (059.8%). This demonstrates that the planner learns to select task-appropriate tools.
Flow-GRPO enhances tool-calling efficacy.
A key aspect of the model’s improvement is its increased reliability in tool usage. As shown in Figure 6, the tool-calling error rate consistently decreases across tasks during training, with a reduction of up to 28.4% on GAIA. This trend indicates that the training process not only teaches the model which tool to use but also how to invoke it correctly with proper arguments and format, leading to more robust and effective tool integration.
Flow-GRPO incentivizes autonomous discovery of new solutions.
We further examine qualitative examples in Figure 7 and additional cases in §F. These cases show that AgentFlow, trained with Flow-GRPO, develops enhanced capabilities for task planning and tool use. The planner exhibits adaptive efficiency, stronger self-correction, and spontaneous new integration of tools throughout step-by-step problem-solving, autonomously discovering effective solution pathways.
4.4 Training Strategies on the Planner
We conduct an ablation study to analyze the impact of different training strategies for the Action Planner module in AgentFlow, with results reported in Table 3. The executor, verifier, and generator modules remain fixed as Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct, consistent with our main setup (§4.1).
A more capable planner is beneficial, but has limits. Replacing the frozen Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct baseline with a stronger proprietary model, GPT-4o, yields only a modest 5.8% average gain. This indicates a key bottleneck that, while a more powerful model improves planning, its static nature prevents co-adaptation with the live dynamics of AgentFlow.
Offline SFT leads to performance collapse, while in-the-flow RL is crucial. The limitations of a static planner are further exposed when distilling GPT-4o’s behavior via offline supervised fine-tuning (SFT) on its trajectories as Action Planner in AgentFlow. This results in a catastrophic performance collapse, with an average accuracy drop of 19.0% compared to the frozen baseline. This failure arises from the token-level imitation objective of SFT, which misaligns with trajectory-level task success and prevents the planner from adapting to dynamic tool feedback or recovering from compounding errors. In contrast, training the planner with our on-policy Flow-GRPO method proves highly effective: by optimizing for the final outcome, the planner learns to handle long-horizon workflows, achieving a 17.2% average gain over the frozen baseline.
4.5 Training Efficiency Analysis
Optimized planning with increased rewards and condensed responses.
We analyze the training dynamics of the AgentFlow planner by tracking its average reward and response length on the train set (Figure 8a). Training rewards steadily increase, indicating effective policy improvement via Flow-GRPO. Meanwhile, response length, after an initial exploratory rise, progressively shortens and stabilizes. This shows the planner learns to balance conciseness and informativeness, avoiding unnecessarily long outputs.
Flow-GRPO efficiency over tool-integrated reasoning RL.
We compare AgentFlow (trained with Flow-GRPO) against a monolithic tool-integrated reasoning baseline (ToRL) on AIME24. As shown in Figure 8b, AgentFlow achieves sustained performance gains, with validation accuracy growing steadily. In contrast, ToRL’s performance quickly stagnates and trends downwards, highlighting the superior efficiency of our agentic training approach, which uses decomposition and stable credit assignment to avoid the instability.
4.6 Scaling Trends in AgentFlow
Training scaling in backbone size.
We study how backbone LLM scale affects AgentFlow’s performance and the efficacy of Flow-GRPO. We build two versions of the system: one using Qwen2.5-3B-Instruct and another using Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct for all four modules (planner, executor, verifier, and generator) and tools. In both, only the planner is fine-tuned with Flow-GRPO. As shown in Figure 9, Flow-GRPO fine-tuning consistently improves performance across tasks for both backbones. This demonstrates that our in-the-flow optimization is effective across model capacities, enhancing AgentFlow regardless of LLM size.
Inference scaling in turn budgets.
We investigate how the maximum allowed turns () affect reasoning depth and final performance of AgentFlow during test-time inference with the Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct backbone. As shown in Figure 10, increasing from 3 to 10 consistently improves outcomes across all tasks, accompanied by a rise in average turns consumed. On knowledge-intensive benchmarks such as 2Wiki and GAIA, a larger turn budget enables AgentFlow for deeper information retrieval. On mathematical benchmarks like GameOf24 and AIME24, it supports decomposed sub-goals, alternative strategies, and refinement of errors. Final performance peaks at for all tasks, confirming that a longer reasoning horizon benefits the system without causing degenerate loops. This validates that AgentFlow adapts its turn allocation to problem complexity to achieve better solutions through iterative refinement.
5 Related Work
Reinforcement learning (RL) from outcome-based rewards has become a dominant paradigm for training LLMs to use external tools. Much of this work trains a single, monolithic policy to interleave reasoning with tool calls. This strategy has proven effective in specialized, single-tool settings, such as code execution for mathematical problems (Mai et al., 2025; Xue et al., 2025; Feng et al., 2025; Li et al., 2025b) and web search for knowledge-intensive questions (Chen et al., 2025; Jin et al., 2025; Song et al., 2025; Li et al., 2025a; Sun et al., 2025). Recent efforts have extended this monolithic framework to multi-tool environments by focusing on data synthesis (Dong et al., 2025), unified training infrastructure (Jiang et al., 2025), and principled reward design (Qian et al., 2025a; Zhang et al., 2025). However, this monolithic approach scales poorly as task complexity and planning horizons grow. The central challenge is long-horizon credit assignment; attributing a final outcome to specific intermediate tool calls remains difficult, even with fine-grained, turn-level rewards (Zeng et al., 2025a; Wang et al., 2025d). This difficulty leads to training instability and brittle inference-time generalization, manifesting as strategic deficiencies like tool overuse or “cognitive offloading” (Wang et al., 2025b; Qian et al., 2025b), suboptimal personalization (Cheng et al., 2025), and poor alignment with user preferences for tool invocation (Huang et al., 2025).
Agentic systems with tool use.
Agentic systems offer an alternative to monolithic models by decomposing tasks across specialized modules. Many such systems are training-free, orchestrating pre-trained LLMs with handcrafted logic and prompting, as seen in frameworks like AutoGen (Wu et al., 2024), MetaGPT (Hong et al., 2024), and OctoTools (Lu et al., 2025). This static approach, however, limits their ability to learn and adapt collaborative strategies from experience. Recognizing this, recent work explores training these systems to improve coordination (Deng et al., 2025; Liao et al., 2025). However, most training paradigms are offline, relying on supervised fine-tuning or preference optimization on static datasets (Motwani et al., 2024; Park et al., 2025). These methods are decoupled from the live, multi-turn dynamics of the system, preventing modules from learning to adapt to evolving tool outputs or recover from early mistakes. Training directly in the flow with on-policy RL is difficult due to sparse rewards and long-horizon credit assignment, where feedback is delayed across long reasoning chains and shifting state distributions (Wang et al., 2025c). Consequently, these systems often suffer from brittle adaptation and require complex reward shaping to learn effectively (Wang et al., 2025a).
6 Conclusion
We presented AgentFlow, a trainable, in-the-flow agentic system that coordinates four specialized modules via an evolving memory and optimizes its planner directly inside the multi-turn loop. To enable stable on-policy learning under long-horizon, sparse-reward settings, we introduced Flow-GRPO, which converts multi-turn RL into a sequence of tractable single-turn policy updates by broadcasting a single, verifiable trajectory-level outcome to every turn and stabilizing credit assignment with group-normalized advantages. Comprehensive experiments show that AgentFlow achieves strong cross-domain performance, surpassing specialized baselines and even larger proprietary models. In-depth analyses confirm improved planning and tool-calling reliability, along with positive scaling trends in model size and allowed turn budgets. Future research will focus on extending in-the-flow optimization to other modules, incorporating more fine-grained reward signals, and scaling the framework to tackle more complex, open-ended tasks.
Acknowledgment
We would like to thank Yihe Deng, Xuehang Guo, and Kunlun Zhu for their valuable input during the early stages of this work. We are grateful to Lambda for providing GPU resources. This work was partially supported by the Hoffman-Yee Research Grants program at Stanford HAI, the AI for Math Fund by Renaissance Philanthropy, ONR MURI N00014-24-1-2748, and the AI Research Hub Project through KAIST.
References
- Art of Problem Solving (2025) Art of Problem Solving. Aime problems and solutions, 2025. URL https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/AIME_Problems_and_Solutions.
- Chen et al. (2025) Mingyang Chen, Tianpeng Li, Haoze Sun, Yijie Zhou, Chenzheng Zhu, Haofen Wang, Jeff Z Pan, Wen Zhang, Huajun Chen, Fan Yang, et al. ReSearch: Learning to reason with search for llms via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.19470, 2025.
- Cheng et al. (2025) Zihao Cheng, Hongru Wang, Zeming Liu, Yuhang Guo, Yuanfang Guo, Yunhong Wang, and Haifeng Wang. ToolSpectrum: Towards personalized tool utilization for large language models. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025, pp. 20679–20699, 2025.
- Deng et al. (2025) Yingfan Deng, Anhao Zhou, Yuan Yuan, Xian Zhang, Yifei Zou, and Dongxiao Yu. Pe-ma: Parameter-efficient co-evolution of multi-agent systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.11803, 2025.
- Dong et al. (2025) Guanting Dong, Yifei Chen, Xiaoxi Li, Jiajie Jin, Hongjin Qian, Yutao Zhu, Hangyu Mao, Guorui Zhou, Zhicheng Dou, and Ji-Rong Wen. Tool-star: Empowering llm-brained multi-tool reasoner via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.16410, 2025.
- Dubey et al. (2024) Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Amy Yang, Angela Fan, et al. The llama 3 herd of models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783, 2024.
- Feng et al. (2025) Jiazhan Feng, Shijue Huang, Xingwei Qu, Ge Zhang, Yujia Qin, Baoquan Zhong, Chengquan Jiang, Jinxin Chi, and Wanjun Zhong. Retool: Reinforcement learning for strategic tool use in llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.11536, 2025.
- Guo et al. (2025) Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu, Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, et al. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12948, 2025.
- He et al. (2025) Zhiwei He, Tian Liang, Jiahao Xu, Qiuzhi Liu, Xingyu Chen, Yue Wang, Linfeng Song, Dian Yu, Zhenwen Liang, Wenxuan Wang, et al. Deepmath-103k: A large-scale, challenging, decontaminated, and verifiable mathematical dataset for advancing reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.11456, 2025.
- Ho et al. (2020) Xanh Ho, Anh-Khoa Duong Nguyen, Saku Sugawara, and Akiko Aizawa. Constructing a multi-hop qa dataset for comprehensive evaluation of reasoning steps. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics (COLING), pp. 6609–6625, 2020.
- Hong et al. (2024) Sirui Hong, Mingchen Zhuge, Jonathan Chen, Xiawu Zheng, Yuheng Cheng, Ceyao Zhang, Jinlin Wang, Zili Wang, Steven Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, et al. MetaGPT: Meta programming for a multi-agent collaborative framework. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2024.
- Hu et al. (2025a) Jingcheng Hu, Yinmin Zhang, Qi Han, Daxin Jiang, Xiangyu Zhang, and Heung-Yeung Shum. Open-reasoner-zero: An open source approach to scaling up reinforcement learning on the base model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.24290, 2025a.
- Hu et al. (2025b) Mengkang Hu, Yuhang Zhou, Wendong Fan, Yuzhou Nie, Bowei Xia, Tao Sun, Ziyu Ye, Zhaoxuan Jin, Yingru Li, Qiguang Chen, et al. Owl: Optimized workforce learning for general multi-agent assistance in real-world task automation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.23885, 2025b.
- Huang et al. (2025) Chengrui Huang, Shen Gao, Zhengliang Shi, Dongsheng Wang, and Shuo Shang. TTPA: Token-level tool-use preference alignment training framework with fine-grained evaluation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.20016, 2025.
- Hurst et al. (2024) Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Ostrow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, et al. GPT-4o system card. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21276, 2024.
- Jiang et al. (2025) Dongfu Jiang, Yi Lu, Zhuofeng Li, Zhiheng Lyu, Ping Nie, Haozhe Wang, Alex Su, Hui Chen, Kai Zou, Chao Du, et al. VerlTool: Towards holistic agentic reinforcement learning with tool use. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.01055, 2025.
- Jin et al. (2025) Bowen Jin, Hansi Zeng, Zhenrui Yue, Jinsung Yoon, Sercan Arik, Dong Wang, Hamed Zamani, and Jiawei Han. Search-R1: Training llms to reason and leverage search engines with reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.09516, 2025.
- Jin et al. (2021) Di Jin, Eileen Pan, Nassim Oufattole, Wei-Hung Weng, Hanyi Fang, and Peter Szolovits. What disease does this patient have? a large-scale open domain question answering dataset from medical exams. Applied Sciences, 11(14):6421, 2021.
- Li et al. (2025a) Xiaoxi Li, Guanting Dong, Jiajie Jin, Yuyao Zhang, Yujia Zhou, Yutao Zhu, Peitian Zhang, and Zhicheng Dou. Search-o1: Agentic search-enhanced large reasoning models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.05366, 2025a.
- Li et al. (2025b) Xuefeng Li, Haoyang Zou, and Pengfei Liu. ToRL: Scaling tool-integrated rl. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.23383, 2025b.
- Liao et al. (2025) Junwei Liao, Muning Wen, Jun Wang, and Weinan Zhang. Marft: Multi-agent reinforcement fine-tuning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.16129, 2025.
- Lightman et al. (2023) Hunter Lightman, Vineet Kosaraju, Yuri Burda, Harrison Edwards, Bowen Baker, Teddy Lee, Jan Leike, John Schulman, Ilya Sutskever, and Karl Cobbe. Let’s verify step by step. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2023.
- Lile (2024) Nathan Lile. Math twenty four (24s game) dataset. https://huggingface.co/datasets/nlile/24-game, 2024.
- Lu et al. (2025) Pan Lu, Bowen Chen, Sheng Liu, Rahul Thapa, Joseph Boen, and James Zou. OctoTools: An agentic framework with extensible tools for complex reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.11271, 2025.
- Ma et al. (2025) Xueguang Ma, Qian Liu, Dongfu Jiang, Ge Zhang, Zejun Ma, and Wenhu Chen. General-reasoner: Advancing llm reasoning across all domains. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.14652, 2025.
- MAA (2023) MAA. American mathematics competitions. In American Mathematics Competitions, 2023.
- Mai et al. (2025) Xinji Mai, Haotian Xu, Xing W, Weinong Wang, Yingying Zhang, and Wenqiang Zhang. Agent RL Scaling Law: Agent RL with Spontaneous Code Execution for Mathematical Problem Solving. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.07773, 2025.
- Mialon et al. (2023) Grégoire Mialon, Clémentine Fourrier, Thomas Wolf, Yann LeCun, and Thomas Scialom. Gaia: a benchmark for general ai assistants. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2023.
- Moonshot AI (2025) Moonshot AI. Kimi-Researcher: End-to-End RL Training for Emerging Agentic Capabilities. https://moonshotai.github.io/Kimi-Researcher/, June 2025.
- Motwani et al. (2024) Sumeet Ramesh Motwani, Chandler Smith, Rocktim Jyoti Das, Rafael Rafailov, Ivan Laptev, Philip HS Torr, Fabio Pizzati, Ronald Clark, and Christian Schroeder de Witt. Malt: Improving reasoning with multi-agent llm training. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.01928, 2024.
- Park et al. (2025) Chanwoo Park, Seungju Han, Xingzhi Guo, A. Ozdaglar, Kaiqing Zhang, and Joo-Kyung Kim. MAPoRL: Multi-agent post-co-training for collaborative large language models with reinforcement learning. In Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusId:276580906.
- Press et al. (2023) Ofir Press, Muru Zhang, Sewon Min, Ludwig Schmidt, Noah A Smith, and Mike Lewis. Measuring and narrowing the compositionality gap in language models. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023, pp. 5687–5711, 2023.
- Qian et al. (2025a) Cheng Qian, Emre Can Acikgoz, Qi He, Hongru Wang, Xiusi Chen, Dilek Hakkani-Tür, Gokhan Tur, and Heng Ji. ToolRL: Reward is all tool learning needs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.13958, 2025a.
- Qian et al. (2025b) Cheng Qian, Emre Can Acikgoz, Hongru Wang, Xiusi Chen, Avirup Sil, Dilek Hakkani-Tür, Gokhan Tur, and Heng Ji. SMART: Self-aware agent for tool overuse mitigation. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025, pp. 4604–4621, 2025b.
- Rein et al. (2024) David Rein, Betty Li Hou, Asa Cooper Stickland, Jackson Petty, Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Julien Dirani, Julian Michael, and Samuel R Bowman. Gpqa: A graduate-level google-proof q&a benchmark. In First Conference on Language Modeling, 2024.
- Schulman et al. (2015) John Schulman, Sergey Levine, Pieter Abbeel, Michael Jordan, and Philipp Moritz. Trust region policy optimization. In International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), pp. 1889–1897. PMLR, 2015.
- Shao et al. (2023) Zhihong Shao, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Minlie Huang, Nan Duan, and Weizhu Chen. Enhancing retrieval-augmented large language models with iterative retrieval-generation synergy. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023, pp. 9248–9274, 2023.
- Shao et al. (2024) Zhihong Shao, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu, Junxiao Song, Xiao Bi, Haowei Zhang, Mingchuan Zhang, YK Li, Yang Wu, et al. Deepseekmath: Pushing the limits of mathematical reasoning in open language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03300, 2024.
- Song et al. (2025) Huatong Song, Jinhao Jiang, Yingqian Min, Jie Chen, Zhipeng Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Lei Fang, and Ji-Rong Wen. R1-searcher: Incentivizing the search capability in llms via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.05592, 2025.
- Sun et al. (2025) Hao Sun, Zile Qiao, Jiayan Guo, Xuanbo Fan, Yingyan Hou, Yong Jiang, Pengjun Xie, Yan Zhang, Fei Huang, and Jingren Zhou. Zerosearch: Incentivize the search capability of llms without searching. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.04588, 2025.
- Trivedi et al. (2022) Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. Musique: Multihop questions via single-hop question composition. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics (TACL), 10:539–554, 2022.
- Wang et al. (2025a) Hanlin Wang, Chak Tou Leong, Jiashuo Wang, Jian Wang, and Wenjie Li. SPA-RL: Reinforcing llm agents via stepwise progress attribution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.20732, 2025a.
- Wang et al. (2025b) Hongru Wang, Cheng Qian, Wanjun Zhong, Xiusi Chen, Jiahao Qiu, Shijue Huang, Bowen Jin, Mengdi Wang, Kam-Fai Wong, and Heng Ji. Acting less is reasoning more! teaching model to act efficiently. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.14870, 2025b. URL https://arxiv.org/pdf/2504.14870.
- Wang et al. (2025c) Zihan Wang, Kangrui Wang, Qineng Wang, Pingyue Zhang, Linjie Li, Zhengyuan Yang, Xing Jin, Kefan Yu, Minh Nhat Nguyen, Licheng Liu, et al. RAGEN: Understanding self-evolution in llm agents via multi-turn reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.20073, 2025c.
- Wang et al. (2025d) Ziliang Wang, Xuhui Zheng, Kang An, Cijun Ouyang, Jialu Cai, Yuhang Wang, and Yichao Wu. Stepsearch: Igniting llms search ability via step-wise proximal policy optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.15107, 2025d.
- Wu et al. (2024) Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu, Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li Jiang, Xiaoyun Zhang, Shaokun Zhang, Jiale Liu, et al. Autogen: Enabling next-gen llm applications via multi-agent conversations. In First Conference on Language Modeling (COLM), 2024.
- Xue et al. (2025) Zhenghai Xue, Longtao Zheng, Qian Liu, Yingru Li, Xiaosen Zheng, Zejun Ma, and Bo An. Simpletir: End-to-end reinforcement learning for multi-turn tool-integrated reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.02479, 2025.
- Yan et al. (2025) Jianhao Yan, Yafu Li, Zican Hu, Zhi Wang, Ganqu Cui, Xiaoye Qu, Yu Cheng, and Yue Zhang. Learning to reason under off-policy guidance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.14945, 2025.
- Yang et al. (2024a) An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Bao, Kexin Yang, Le Yu, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Pei Zhang, Qin Zhu, Rui Men, Runji Lin, Tianhao Li, Tianyi Tang, Tingyu Xia, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yu Wan, Yuqiong Liu, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, and Zihan Qiu. Qwen2.5 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.15115, 2024a.
- Yang et al. (2024b) An Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bofei Gao, Bowen Yu, Chengpeng Li, Dayiheng Liu, Jianhong Tu, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, et al. Qwen2. 5-math technical report: Toward mathematical expert model via self-improvement. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.12122, 2024b.
- Yang et al. (2024c) Hang Yang, Hao Chen, Hui Guo, Yineng Chen, Ching-Sheng Lin, Shu Hu, Jinrong Hu, Xi Wu, and Xin Wang. Llm-medqa: Enhancing medical question answering through case studies in large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.05464, 2024c.
- Yang et al. (2018) Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio, William Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christopher D Manning. HotpotQA: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop question answering. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pp. 2369–2380, 2018.
- Yu et al. (2025) Qiying Yu, Zheng Zhang, Ruofei Zhu, Yufeng Yuan, Xiaochen Zuo, Yu Yue, Weinan Dai, Tiantian Fan, Gaohong Liu, Lingjun Liu, et al. Dapo: An open-source llm reinforcement learning system at scale. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.14476, 2025.
- Zeng et al. (2025a) Siliang Zeng, Quan Wei, William Brown, Oana Frunza, Yuriy Nevmyvaka, and Mingyi Hong. Reinforcing multi-turn reasoning in llm agents via turn-level credit assignment. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.11821, 2025a.
- Zeng et al. (2025b) Weihao Zeng, Yuzhen Huang, Qian Liu, Wei Liu, Keqing He, Zejun Ma, and Junxian He. Simplerl-zoo: Investigating and taming zero reinforcement learning for open base models in the wild. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.18892, 2025b.
- Zhang et al. (2025) Shaokun Zhang, Yi Dong, Jieyu Zhang, Jan Kautz, Bryan Catanzaro, Andrew Tao, Qingyun Wu, Zhiding Yu, and Guilin Liu. Nemotron-research-tool-n1: Tool-using language models with reinforced reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.00024, 2025.
Table of Contents
Appendix A Training Algorithm of AgentFlow
Appendix B Theoretical Analysis of Flow-GRPO
B.1 Preliminaries and Notation
We adopt the notation from the paper to formalize our analysis.
Definition B.1 (Core Components).
Here we list core definition of variables.
Symbol and Description
The trainable planner policy, parameterized by .
The behavior policy used to sample trajectories.
The state at turn , defined as .
The action (a sequence of tokens) generated at state , where .
A trajectory of states and actions over time steps, defined as .
The outcome-based reward for trajectory , where .
The group-normalized advantage for trajectory . A crucial property is that the advantage is constant for all timesteps within a trajectory defined in Eq. 7: .
The token-level importance sampling ratio, defined as:
The PPO clipped objective term, defined as .
Definition B.2 (Objective Functions).
The global policy objective is the expected trajectory-level reward:
The single-turn optimization objective for a given state is defined as:
The full Flow-GRPO objective function in the multi-turn setting is given by:
B.2 Equivalence Proof for Optimization Objectives
Theorem B.1.
In Flow-GRPO, maximizing the global multi-turn objective is mathematically equivalent to maximizing the expected token-level local objective at each time step under the on-policy induced state distribution, given standard sampling assumptions (trajectories sampled i.i.d. from the policy with fixed finite turn ).
Proof.
Let’s denote the clipping part of the Flow-GRPO objective as .
First, by the linearity of expectation, we can simplify the expectation over a group of trajectories. Since the trajectories are sampled independently and identically (i.i.d.) from the behavior policy , the expectation of their average is equal to the expectation over a single trajectory.
Here, represents a single, arbitrarily sampled trajectory with advantage .
Next, we can re-interpret the expectation over trajectories as an expectation over the state-visitation distribution induced by the policy . Let be the on-policy distribution of states visited, where each state in a trajectory of length is weighted by . The expectation can be rewritten as:
Note that is the advantage corresponding to the trajectory from which was sampled.
We now recognize that the inner expectation is precisely the definition of the local, per-state objective, .
Adding the KL-divergence term back, we arrive at the final equivalence:
This proves that maximizing the global multi-turn Flow-GRPO objective is equivalent to maximizing the expected token-level local objective at each time step under the on-policy induced state distribution. ∎
B.3 Convergence Analysis
Having established the structural validity of the objective, we now analyze its convergence properties. The analysis builds on the monotonic improvement guarantee provided by trust-region methods (Schulman et al., 2015).
Lemma B.2 (Policy Performance Difference).
For two policies and , the difference in expected return can be expressed as:
where is the advantage function under the old policy.
This lemma enables the construction of a lower bound on policy improvement.
Theorem B.3 (Monotonic Improvement Guarantee).
Define the surrogate objective
Then the performance improvement satisfies the lower bound
where is a constant depending on the horizon and reward scale, and denotes the average KL-divergence between the two policies.
By optimizing the right-hand side of the above inequality, we can expect to improve the performance of when the policy update remains within a trust region. While the clipping mechanism provides an approximate enforcement of this constraint, it does not offer strict guarantees. Empirically, for policies and obtained from updates, we typically observe:
where denotes near-monotonic improvement in practice.
Conclusion. This analysis establishes that Flow-GRPO optimizes a theoretically grounded surrogate objective that approximates trust region methods. The combination of clipping and KL regularization promotes stable policy improvement and reliable convergence to locally optimal policies, as validated by our experiments.
Appendix C Experimental Details
C.1 Evaluation Details
Here, we outline the specifics of our evaluation protocol. For evaluation, we increase the maximum number of turns per rollout to to allow for more extensive and deeper reasoning. The planner’s sampling temperature is set to 0.7 to encourage diverse solution paths. Unless otherwise specified, all tool LLM engines are initialized with Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct.
For fair and consistent evaluation, we adopt the previous work’s methodology while standardizing tools (Lu et al., 2025): we replace search tools in search-enhanced models with our Google Search tool and code tools in code-enhanced models with our Python Coder tool. We use GPT-4o as an LLM-based judge to determine the correctness of final answers. This approach provides a robust measure of semantic and numerical equivalence, which is critical for complex reasoning tasks. The specific judging prompt is detailed in §E.3, and additional information on evaluation datasets can be found in §C.3. To mitigate randomness, we report the average accuracy with standard deviation across three trials for all experiments.
C.2 Compared Baselines
Proprietary LLMs:
-
•
Qwen2.5 Series (Yang et al., 2024a), created by Alibaba, comes in multiple configurations. These models undergo training on multilingual corpora covering 29 different languages, demonstrating superior performance in cross-lingual applications. Furthermore, Qwen2.5 showcases robust proficiency in programming and mathematical domains.
-
•
Llama-3 Series (Dubey et al., 2024), created by Meta AI, encompasses various iterations. Each model configuration within the Llama family provides dual versions: foundational and instruction-following variants. Training incorporates diverse dataset combinations spanning multiple domains and linguistic varieties. The Llama model family demonstrates excellent results in logical reasoning, software development, and cross-lingual comprehension evaluations. Through progressive enhancements in fine-tuning methodologies and expanded sequence lengths, these models become more applicable to practical deployment scenarios.
-
•
GPT-4o Series (Hurst et al., 2024), produced by OpenAI, includes several model variants such as GPT-4o and GPT-4o-mini, with training leveraging extensive multimodal datasets encompassing text, vision, and audio modalities. The series achieves outstanding performance in complex reasoning tasks, creative generation, and multimodal understanding benchmarks with continuous refinements in alignment techniques and enhanced processing capabilities.
Reasoning LLMs:
- •
-
•
SimpleRL-Zoo (Zeng et al., 2025b) investigates zero reinforcement learning training across 10 diverse base models spanning different families and sizes using GRPO algorithm with simple rule-based rewards, achieving substantial improvements in reasoning accuracy.
-
•
Open-Reasoner-Zero (Hu et al., 2025a) presents the first open-source implementation of large-scale reasoning-oriented RL training using PPO with GAE and straightforward rule-based rewards, without KL regularization. The framework demonstrates that minimalist design can successfully scale both response length and benchmark performance.
-
•
General-Reasoner (Ma et al., 2025) extends LLM reasoning capabilities beyond mathematics to diverse domains using RLVR through a 230K verifiable reasoning questions dataset spanning physics, chemistry, and finance.
-
•
LUFFY (Yan et al., 2025) addresses limitations in on-policy RLVR by introducing an off-policy framework that augments training with external reasoning demonstrations using Mixed Policy GRPO and regularized importance sampling.
Search-Integrated Reasoning LLMs:
-
•
Iter-RetGen (Shao et al., 2023) addresses limitations in retrieval-augmented language models by introducing iterative retrieval-generation synergy, where a model’s previous response serves as context for retrieving more relevant knowledge in subsequent iterations.
-
•
Search-R1 (Jin et al., 2025) represents a reinforcement learning approach that develops a model from the ground up to invoke search functionality throughout the reasoning process.
-
•
ZeroSearch (Sun et al., 2025) addresses high API costs in RL-based search training by using an LLM to simulate search engines, employing lightweight supervised fine-tuning to transform an LLM into a retrieval module that generates both useful and noisy documents. The framework combines this with a curriculum-based rollout strategy that progressively degrades document quality, achieving better performance than real search engine-based methods while incurring zero API costs.
-
•
ReSearch (Chen et al., 2025) proposes a reinforcement learning framework that trains LLMs to integrate search operations as components of the reasoning chain without supervised data on reasoning steps, treating search decisions as guided by text-based thinking.
-
•
StepSearch (Wang et al., 2025d) addresses the sparse reward problem in multi-hop reasoning by training search LLMs using step-wise proximal policy optimization with intermediate rewards and token-level process supervision based on information gain and redundancy penalties.
-
•
VerlTool (Jiang et al., 2025) addresses fragmentation and synchronization bottlenecks in Agentic Reinforcement Learning with Tool use by introducing a unified modular framework that extends beyond single-turn RLVR paradigms, providing upstream VeRL alignment and unified tool management with asynchronous rollout execution achieving near 2× speedup.
Code-Integrated Reasoning LLMs:
-
•
TIR (Yang et al., 2024b) is a basic baseline that demonstrates the model’s ability to generate code for tool utilization. In our implementation, we directly prompt the model to write code that calls the programming interpreter and processes the returned results to generate the final answer.
-
•
ToRL (Li et al., 2025b) is a code-enhanced architecture developed via reinforcement learning that empowers models to independently activate code execution environments for mathematical reasoning tasks.
Training-free Agentic System
-
•
AutoGen (Wu et al., 2024) introduces an agentic conversation framework that enables developers to build LLM applications through conversable agents that can operate using combinations of LLMs, human inputs, and tools.
C.3 Evaluation Datasets
We provide a detailed introduction to the search-intensive and agentic benchmarks in our experiments as follows:
-
•
Bamboogle (Press et al., 2023) presents a demanding multi-step reasoning dataset containing manually constructed questions requiring up to four inferential steps. The dataset evaluates models’ capacity for intricate compositional reasoning across interconnected facts.
-
•
2Wiki (2WikiMultihopQA) (Ho et al., 2020) constitutes a comprehensive multi-step QA corpus combining structured Wikidata knowledge with unstructured Wikipedia text. The dataset encompasses varied question formats and annotated reasoning chains to facilitate interpretable sequential inference. We randomly sample 100 examples as a test set for efficiency.
-
•
HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018) represents a widely-adopted question answering corpus featuring multi-step queries constructed from Wikipedia entries. We randomly sample 100 examples as a test set for efficiency.
-
•
Musique (Trivedi et al., 2022) comprises a multi-step reasoning corpus requiring sequential inference where each reasoning stage depends on information derived from preceding steps. We conduct evaluations using the development partition of this particularly challenging dataset. We randomly sample 100 examples as a test set for efficiency.
-
•
GAIA (Mialon et al., 2023) constitutes a benchmark engineered to assess general AI systems and agents, demanding capabilities including sequential reasoning, web navigation, and comprehensive tool utilization skills. We utilize the text-exclusive portion of this dataset, designed to challenge base language models in our experimental setup.
Furthermore, we also conduct a series of experiments on math and scientific reasoning benchmarks:
-
•
AIME24 (Art of Problem Solving, 2025) A collection of 30 demanding mathematical problems sourced from the 2024 American Invitational Mathematics Examination (AIME), encompassing algebra, geometry, number theory, and combinatorics. Each JSONL-formatted record contains the problem identifier, question text, comprehensive solution methodology, and the final numerical result. Created to assess large language models’ sophisticated mathematical reasoning abilities, the dataset presents substantial difficulty, systematic multi-phase solutions, and distinctive answers—establishing it as a robust benchmark for evaluating advanced analytical capabilities.
-
•
AMC23 (MAA, 2023) contains mathematical problems derived from the 2023 American Mathematics Competition, emphasizing areas such as functional equations and complex analysis.
-
•
GameOf24 (Lile, 2024) derives from the traditional numerical puzzle known as 24 (alternatively called the 24 numbers game). The challenge requires utilizing four given numbers with fundamental arithmetic operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication, division) to create an expression yielding 24. For instance, with numbers 4, 9, 10, and 13, a correct solution would be “(10 - 4) × (13 - 9) = 24”. Successfully solving requires computational proficiency along with iterative attempts to validate potential solutions. Each challenge is formatted as open-ended inquiries.
-
•
GPQA or Graduate Level Google-Proof Q&A Benchmark (Rein et al., 2024) comprises a collection of demanding text-based multiple choice problems authored by subject specialists in biology, physics, and chemistry, intentionally crafted to be “exceptionally challenging”. We randomly sample 100 examples as a test set for efficiency.
-
•
MedQA (Jin et al., 2021) features text-based multiple choice problems assembled from professional medical licensing examinations. Problems encompass comprehensive medical knowledge and clinical reasoning skills.
Appendix D More Discussion about Experiment Results
D.1 Main Result Analysis
Our main results are presented in Tables 1 and 2. Overall, AgentFlow consistently outperforms all baseline models across diverse domains, including search-intensive tasks, agentic tasks, and mathematical and scientific reasoning tasks. These comprehensive results yield several key insights:
Monolithic LLMs are insufficient for complex reasoning. While scaling up model size (from 7B model to GPT-4o) improves average performance, their monolithic nature presents limitations when facing complex tasks that require multi-turn reasoning and sub-goal decomposition. In contrast, our proposed AgentFlow consistently outperforms these larger models. Specifically, it achieves an average improvement of 8.2% over GPT-4o on search-intensive tasks (57.3% vs. 49.1% in Table 1), and a remarkable 15.8% gain over GPT-4o on agentic tasks (33.1% vs. 17.3% in Table 1). For mathematical reasoning benchmarks, AgentFlow obtains a substantial improvement of 16.4% over GPT-4o (51.5% vs. 35.1% in Table 2). Furthermore, it surpasses the strong Llama-3.3-70B by 12.5% on scientific reasoning tasks (63.5% vs. 51.0% in Table 2). These results demonstrate that the carefully designed agentic system of AgentFlow, despite being built on a 7B-parameter backbone, can deliver superior and more efficient performance compared to substantially larger monolithic LLMs.
Specialized reasoning models exhibit strong in-domain focus but limited generalizability. While domain-specific fine-tuning and tailored tool integration provide clear benefits over base LLMs, they fail to deliver robust cross-domain performance due to fundamental scaling limitations. Our evaluation across three reasoning domains substantiates these limitations. On search-intensive tasks, specialized models such as Search-R1 (33.3%) and VerlTool (39.0%) perform well within their narrow scope yet fall substantially short of AgentFlow (57.3%) as shown in Table 1. Similarly, in mathematical reasoning, methods like SimpleRL-reason (36.6%) and ToRL (37.0%) trail significantly behind AgentFlow (51.5%) in Table 2. Even in scientific reasoning, where models such as Luffy (55.5%) offer competitive results, they are consistently surpassed by AgentFlow (63.5%) in Table 2. These findings demonstrate that while specialized reasoning models excel within narrow domains, their reliance on a single monolithic policy introduces poor generalization, making them brittle when confronted with diverse, cross-domain challenges.
AgentFlow demonstrates superior, versatile reasoning through its adaptive agentic system. AgentFlow establishes a new state-of-the-art agentic system by achieving an average accuracy of 57.3% on search-intensive tasks, 33.1% on agentic tasks, 51.5% on mathematical reasoning, and 63.5% on scientific reasoning. Our method’s advantage stems from combining an agentic system with targeted planning policy refinement via on-policy reinforcement learning in an online fashion. When compared to AutoGen—a general agent framework with the same backbone model—AgentFlow demonstrates a massive improvement of 14.9% on search tasks and 19.9% on math tasks. This underscores that the core advantage comes from our dedicated trainable agentic system that integrates our novel Flow-GRPO for in-system on-policy optimization, enabling effective agent planning and tool utilization to solve complex, long-horizon problems across diverse domains.
D.2 In-depth Analysis of Optimized Planning
AgentFlow adapts to inference-time tool scaling.
We scale the tools—the Base Generator and Python Coder—to GPT-4o-powered versions. Empirical results on search and math datasets (Figure 12) show that AgentFlow, when using these GPT-4o-powered tools, substantially outperforms its performance with Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct-powered tools, achieving improvements of 1.0% on GAIA, 6.0% on AMC23, and a notable 13.0% on HotpotQA. This finding further supports a consistent trend: after in-the-flow RL training, the planner can adaptively leverage improvements in the underlying tools to enhance the agentic system’s overall performance.
Flow-GRPO spontaneous tool usage preference change.
We further compare tool usage distributions before and after in-the-flow RL training on Musique. Figure 12 shows that due to Musique’s need for a diverse source of information, Flow-GRPO optimizes the planner to increase Web Search to delve deeper into the URL provided by other search tools. This maneuver presents a steady performance improvement of 6.1%.
Appendix E Instruction Templates in AgentFlow
E.1 Modules and Memory
E.1.1 Action Planner
Tool Metadata can be found in §E.2.
E.1.2 Tool Executor
E.1.3 Execution Verifier
E.1.4 Solution Generator
E.1.5 Evolving Memory
"Action Turn 1": { "Tool Name": "Wikipedia Search", "Sub-Goal": "Retrieve detailed information about Tokyo‘s metropolitan area from Wikipedia.", "Command": "execution = tool.execute(query="Tokyo metropolitan area details")", "Result": "The Greater Tokyo Area is the largest metropolitan area in the world...", "Verification Status": " Brief Review of the Query, Initial Analysis, and Previous Memory. Assessment of Completeness and Accuracy. Conclusion: The memory is not complete and accurate enough to answer the query. Additional tools are needed to verify or generate more solutions. Final Determination: CONTINUE" },
"Action Turn 2": { ... },
...
"Action Turn t": { ... "Verification Status": " Brief Review of the Query, Initial Analysis, and Previous Memory. Assessment of Completeness and Accuracy. (Including Time Dilation Calculation, Geographic Precise, Inconsistencies or Contradictions, Unit Conversion, etc. ) Conclusion: The memory is complete and accurate enough to answer the query. No additional tools are needed to verify or generate more solutions. Final Determination: STOP"
}
Our shared evolving memory system creates a deterministic, structured record that captures the reasoning process across three integrated agents: the Action Planner, Tool Executorr, and Execution Verifier. By sequentially stacking crucial information from each action step, the system enables transparent state tracking, controllable behavior, and bounded context growth.
The memory reading and matching process employs regular expressions to parse outputs generated by different system components, adhering to standardized formats defined in their respective component instructions. For the Action Planner, we use a relatively permissive regular expression to extract key information. Specifically, it matches the content immediately following: Sub-Goal as the sub-goal and the content following; Tool Name as the selected tool. This extracted information is then used to populate the next memory entry. For the Tool Executorr, the regular expression is designed to capture the entire Command line starting with execution = tool.execute(...). Additionally, the value passed to the Query parameter within this command is parsed and saved into the memory for future reference. All results returned by the tools are directly stored in the Result field of the memory. The Verification Status is extracted from Execution Verifier, including a brief analysis of the current tool result and previous memory, and then it gives a conclusion whether the loop needs to be CONTINUE or STOP.
E.2 Toolset Metadata
This section details the implementation and metadata of the tools used in our main results. We employ a suite of specialized tools, each designed for distinct tasks. Below, we present core metadata for each tool, including its functionality, input/output schema, limitations, and best practices.
E.2.1 Base Generator
E.2.2 Python Coder
execution = tool.execute(query=query)
E.2.3 Google Search
E.2.4 Wikipedia Search
Wikipedia search will first call Wikipedia API to retrieve relevant URLs with snippets. Then the RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) process begins by extracting raw text content from the given webpage URL, cleaning it to remove HTML elements and retain only meaningful text. This content is then split into overlapping chunks of approximately 200 words each, with a 20-word overlap to preserve context across segments from the first 1M words in each URL. Next, both the user’s query and the document chunks are embedded into the vector space using the OpenAI text-embedding-3-small111https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/text-embedding-3-small model. The system computes the cosine similarity between the query embedding and each chunk embedding to rank the chunks by relevance. We set that the top 10 most similar chunks are selected and passed forward as context. And a base LLM engine will summarize the extracted context.
E.2.5 Web Search
Web search will directly access the URL in the query. Then the RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) process begins by splitting content from the page into overlapping chunks of approximately 200 words each, with a 20-word overlap to preserve context across segments from the first 1M words in each URL. Next, both the user’s query and the document chunks are embedded into the vector space using the OpenAI text-embedding-3-small222https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/text-embedding-3-small model. The system computes the cosine similarity between the query embedding and each chunk embedding to rank the chunks by relevance. We set that the top 10 most similar chunks are selected and passed forward as context. And a base LLM engine will summarize the extracted context.
E.3 LLM-based Judging
We employ GPT-4o as our judge model using a two-step “analyze-then-judge” instruction paradigm to ensure both accuracy and efficiency.
Appendix F Case Studies
In this section, we conduct a case study to demonstrate how our AgentFlow, coherent with Flow-GRPO, enhances problem-solving performance with greater elegance, efficiency, and robustness. We present solution comparisons showing brief outputs from memory of the Action Planner (Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct) before (w/o) tuning by Flow-GRPO and after (w/) Flow-GRPO tuning, with the methodology detailed in §3.2.
F.1 Example 1: Efficient Search for Simple Tasks
This case demonstrates that, with Flow-GRPO tuning, the Action Planner can effectively leverage the search engine to retrieve correct answers for simple tasks in a highly efficient manner—unlike the untuned baseline, which requires multiple trials.
F.2 Example 2: Spontaneous Brute-force
This case demonstrates that, when tuned with Flow-GRPO, the Action Planner first attempts several solutions, recognizes their ineffectiveness, resorts to a brute-force approach, and finally verifies the result using a search engine.
F.3 Example 3: A Good Initial Plan is Essential
This case demonstrates that a well-crafted initial search with a highly relevant query is far more effective than issuing numerous wrong paths. When tuned with Flow-GRPO, the Action Planner in AgentFlow can identify the optimal search engine and formulate the most effective query, leading to a correct and targeted answer in a single trial.
F.4 Example 4: Robust Self-Correction and Adaptation
This side-by-side comparison illustrates the critical impact of Flow-GRPO tuning on strategic tool usage. The trained AgentFlow agent demonstrates adaptive planning—recovering from failed searches, refining input formulations, and ultimately achieving a correct solution in a single effective trial. In contrast, the untrained agent, despite accessing the correct information early, fails to properly utilize the Python Coder tool and becomes trapped in a repetitive error loop, unable to learn or adjust. This highlights Flow-GRPO’s role in enabling not just tool selection, but strategic resilience and goal-directed reasoning.
# Calculate the sum of products
# Determine the check digit check_digit = total_sum % 11 if check_digit == 10: return ’X’
# Given ISBN-10 number isbn_10 = "100370510"
# Compute the check digit check_digit_result = calculate_check_digit(isbn_10)
# Print the final result print(f"The check digit for the ISBN-10 number isbn_10 is check_digit_result")
F.5 Example 5: New Combo: Retrieve with Specific URL
This case highlights how both agents eventually succeed, but with markedly different efficiency and strategy. The Flow-GRPO-tuned AgentFlow agent learns to refine its queries effectively and—upon recognizing the limitations of Wikipedia search—switches tools strategically to a targeted and the most task-solving relevant web search, achieving success with minimal redundancy. In contrast, the untrained agent persists in issuing dense, ineffective queries within the same tool despite diminishing returns, only escaping the loop by eventually switching to Google Search. While both reach the correct answer, the latter exhibits inefficient exploration and delayed adaptation; furthermore, with no path consistency, underscoring Flow-GRPO’s role in fostering not just correctness, but strategic focus and timely tool transition.
url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Handel%27s_Messiah") • Result: Success! The tool extracted the answer from the page: The part of Handel’s Messiah that covers the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem is found in Part I, specifically in the scene that includes the prophecy of Christ’s birth. This section features the well-known chorus “For unto us a child is born,” which celebrates the nativity of Jesus. Execution Verifier: PASS, STOP Solution Generator: The relevant section is Part I, which includes the famous chorus “For unto us a child is born”.
F.6 Example 6: Rapid and Correct Physics Calculation
This GPQA example reveals a fundamental difference in reasoning quality between the tuned and untuned agents. The Flow-GRPO-enhanced AgentFlow correctly identifies the core challenge—relativistic time dilation over interstellar distances—and applies the appropriate physics-based computation in minimal steps, arriving at the correct answer (81 years) efficiently. In contrast, the untrained agent misinterprets the astronaut’s age as the travel duration, leading to a cascade of erroneous calculations across multiple tool calls. Despite eventually retrieving the distance via search, it fails to integrate this information coherently or recognize its conceptual mistake. This highlights that Flow-GRPO not only improves tool usage efficiency but also promotes correct problem formulation, enabling the agent to distinguish between proper time, coordinate time, and mission constraints—a critical capability for complex scientific reasoning.
# Constants speed_of_light = 1 # Speed of light in arbitrary units distance_to_earth = 165000 # Distance to Earth in light-years astronaut_age = 22 # Astronaut’s age in years velocity_factor = 0.99999987 # Velocity as a fraction of the speed of light
# Step 1: Calculate the time it takes for the spacecraft to travel to Earth travel_time = distance_to_earth / velocity_factor
# Step 2: Calculate the Lorentz factor lorentz_factor = 1 / math.sqrt(1 - velocity_factor**2)
# Step 3: Calculate the perceived time for the astronaut
# Print the results print(f"The spacecraft will take travel_time:.2f years to reach Earth.") print(f"Due to time dilation, the astronaut will perceive perceived_time:.2f years passing.")
# Step 3: Compute the time experienced by the astronaut t_prime = 22 / value_inside_sqrt # Lifespan of the astronaut in years
# Step 4: Print the result print(f"The time experienced by the astronaut is t_prime:.6f years.")
F.7 Example 7: Multi-Source Cross-Verification
The comparison highlights the effectiveness of a multi-tool, systematic reasoning approach enabled by Flow-GRPO. In the success case, the model leveraged sequential tool usage—starting with Google Search, followed by targeted Wikipedia and Web Search—to accurately identify Gülçiçek Hatun as Olivera Despina’s mother-in-law through verified historical sources. Each step built upon prior findings, ensuring robustness and precision. In contrast, the failure case without Flow-GRPO relied on a single, improperly executed Wikipedia query without task decomposition that resulted in a timeout and no meaningful output, leading to premature termination. This demonstrates that Flow-GRPO enhances reasoning trace reliability, tool coordination, and overall task completion in complex knowledge retrieval scenarios.